## ***Tratamento da psoríase na gravidez***


Corticosteroids  
Pregnancy  
Systemic corticosteroid (FDA C, TERIS risk unlikely based on data rated poor to fair) use during pregnancy has been associated in animals with an increased risk of cleft palate, placental insufficiency, spontaneous abortion, and growth retardation in utero. In humans, no teratogenic effects or serious problems are observed with use of low doses of systemic steroids, but use of high doses is associated with a potential risk of growth suppression, inhibition of endogenous steroids, and steroid problems in infants. Congenital cataracts have been reported in an infant whose mother received prednisone throughout pregnancy . One small study concluded that the risk of use of steroids during pregnancy was so low as to be undetectable, though the incidence of cleft palate was higher than would have been expected. Some authors have stated that the risk of teratogenicity of steroids is so low as to be undetectable.263, , AAP has rated corticosteroid use as compatible with breastfeeding.56 

Use of topical steroids (FDA C, TERIS risk unlikely based on data rated poor to fair) during pregnancy is not thought to be associated with significant risk. Manufacturers of the more potent topical steroids issue a warning against their use in large amounts, extensively, or for protracted periods in pregnant patients or in those planning to become pregnant. Recently there was a report of intrauterine growth retardation in the infant of a mother who used 40 mgm of topical triamcinolone per day. 

Calcipotriene (FDA C, TERIS risk undetermined based on data rated very poor, with a high risk unlikely when used in recommended doses) is a Vitamin D analogue. Studies in animals given high oral doses of Vitamin D have shown skeletal abnormalities. With topical use, fetal toxicity was not seen until maternal toxicity was approached.282 During lactation, no problems have been identified.282 

Coal Tar (FDA C, TERIS risk undetermined based on data rated none, high risk unlikely) is a known carcinogen and mutagen. Use of the shampoo has been associated with uptake of coal tar. No studies have been done in humans. The manufacturer advises that pregnant women "seek the advice of a health professional." No information on use during lactation is available. Use of coal tar as a first-line during pregnancy and lactation should be avoided pending further information.

Cyclosporine (FDA C, TERIS risk minimal based on data rated fair for malformations and small to moderate based on data rated fair for intrauterine growth retardation) is embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and carcinogenic in some animal studies , but not in others. Use in humans has been associated with congenital anomalies in 2 of 154 cases in one study as well as an increased risk of premature births in other reports. , A number of successful pregnancies with cyclosporine have been noted. Briggs states that use of cyclosporine during pregnancy poses no major risk to the developing fetus. Use of cyclosporine during lactation is not recommended because of the risk of nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and malignancy in infants. The AAP recommends against use in breast feeding, citing possible immune suppression, unknown effect on growth, or association with carcinogenesis.56

Methoxsalen (FDA C, TERIS risk unlikely based on data rated poor to fair; data insufficient to state no risk) has not been studied in animals. Several studies reported no problems in infants whose mother and/or father had been treated with oral methoxsalen and UVA in the periconceptional period or early pregnancy. One study included pregnancies which occurred one or more years after treatment, and did not identify any increased risk of harm to the fetus.326 However, these studies were small. It has been suggested that women who become pregnant during or following PUVA treatment should be offered prenatal karyotyping to rule out the possibility of chromosomal abnormalities.326 During lactation, the manufacturer advises against use of oral methoxsalen but states that topical methoxsalen may be "used with caution". 

